# Object Mode

MkAPI offers an Object mode that allows you to seamlessly
embed object documentation within your Markdown source.

## Demonstration Package

In this section, we utilize a demonstration package called
`example` to illustrate the Object mode of MkAPI.
This package includes a module named `mod_a` and a subpackage named `sub`,
which contains a module named `mod_b`.

The directory structure of the `example` package is as follows:

```text
example/
├─ __init__.py
├─ mod_a.py
└─ sub/
   ├─ __init__.py
   └─ mod_b.py
```

## Top-level Package

Let’s first explore the top-level package `example`.
To embed the object documentation in your Markdown source,
you can use the following syntax:

```markdown
::: example
```

The line must start with three colons (`:::`), followed by a
space (<code>&blank;</code>) and the full name of the object
(e.g., `package.module.function`).
In this case, we simply use the package name `example`.
MkAPI scans the Markdown source to find this syntax pattern
and converts it into the corresponding object documentation
as shown below:

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example
</div>

!!! note
    In the example above, the green dashed border serves as a visual
    guide to clarify the region of the documentation generated by MkAPI.

In the above example,
the object type (*package*) and its name (`example`) are displayed.
This section serves as the *heading* of the object documentation.

At the right end of the heading, **[source]** button is provided.
Clicking this button will navigate to the source code of the object.
Next to the **[source]** button, **[-]** button is provided.
Clicking this button will hide the documentation to save space and
the button will be changed to **[+]** button.
When you click the **[+]** button again, the documentation will be
shown again.

Following the heading, the main content of the documentation is rendered.
The content of the `example` package is simply a one-line summary:

```python title="example/__init__.py"
--8<-- "example/__init__.py"
```

The `example` package contains a `example.sub` subpackage and a `example.mod_a` module.
A **Modules** section is automatically generated and the `example.sub` subpackage
and `example.mod_a` module are listed in this section.

!!! note
    This is because the `example` package does not define or import any members.
    If there are members, they will take precedence.

Like the heading, the **Modules** section also contains a **[-]**/**[+]** button.
The behavior of this button is the same as the heading.
All sections of the object documentation are collapsible,
as you can see in the following example.

## Package with Members

If a package has members, MkAPI automatically lists them
as a table of contents (TOC),
categorizing them by type (*class*, *function*, or *module*).

In our example, the `example.sub` package has some members.
Check the output:

```markdown
::: example.sub
```

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example.sub
</div>

In the above example, the documentation for the `example.sub`
package includes:

- A **Classes** section including two classes:
  `ClassA` and `ClassB`.
- A **Functions** section including two functions:
  `func_a` and `func_b`.

These names link to the object documentation for easy navigation
if the objects are defined in the current MkDocs project.
A summary line for each class and function is also provided for convenience.

Below is the source code of `example/sub/__init__.py`.

```python title="example/sub/__init__.py"
--8<-- "example/sub/__init__.py"
```

The `example.sub` package also has an`__all__` attribute.
The package members listed in the TOC are sorted by the order
of appearance in the `__all__` attribute.

## Module

A Python module consists of classes and functions as its members.
MkAPI automatically adds a list of members.

```markdown
::: example.mod_a
```

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example.mod_a
</div>

## Function

The `example.mod_a` module contains a function
named `func_a`. You can embed it like this:

```markdown
::: example.mod_a.func_a
```

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example.mod_a.func_a
</div>

The heading of the object documentation
contains a tooltip displaying the full name of the object.
You can view the full name by hovering your mouse cursor over the
function name `func_a` in the example above.
This feature is helpful for quickly identifying the object,
keeping the documentation concise.

You can find a **See also** section at the bottom of the documentation.
This section contains links to the documentation of listed objects.
Again, hovering your mouse cursor over the links will display a tooltip
with the full name of each object.
Instructions on how to generate these links will be described below.

## Class

The `example.mod_a` module contains a class
named `ClassA`. You can embed it in the same way as functions.

```markdown
::: example.mod_a.ClassA
```

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example.mod_a.ClassA
</div>

A class has its own members like modules.
You can find **Attributes** and **Methods** sections
as the TOC.
When a class has many members, you can hide and show
the members by clicking the **[-]**/**[+]** button
in these sections of the class documentation.

## Method

Methods can also be embedded in a Markdown source
by its qualified name.

```markdown
::: example.mod_a.ClassA.method_a
```

<div markdown="1" style="border: 3px dashed #22772288;">
::: example.mod_a.ClassA.method_a
</div>

The heading of a method's documentation
contains a tooltip displaying the full name of the method
along with the class to which the method belongs.
You can also click the prefix *method* to display the
qualified names of all methods on the current page.

## Source Code

Finally, check the source code of `example/mod_a.py`.

```python title="example/mod_a.py"
--8<-- "example/mod_a.py"
```

In the `See Also:` section of the
[`func_a`][example.mod_a.func_a] function,
`ClassA.method_a` is listed as just `` `ClassA.method_a` ``.
This is because `ClassA` is defined in the same module
as `func_a` and it is visible from `func_a`.
MkAPI recognizes the fully qualified name
and embeds a link to the corresponding object documentation.

`ClassB.method_b` is also listed as just `` `ClassB.method_b` ``.
Although `ClassB` isn't defined in the same module,
it is visible from `func_a` because `ClassB` is imported.

!!! note
    `ClassB` is imported in a `TYPE_CHECKING` context so that
    it is not visible to the Python interpreter.
    MkAPI inspects the source code using abstract syntax tree (AST)
    to find objects.

For `func_b` in `example.sub.mod_b`,
Markdown link syntax is used because `func_b` is not
visible from `func_a`.
If you write it as just `` `func_b` ``,
MkAPI will not be able to identify the object, and
the link will not be generated.

!!! note
    Did you notice that the link to the `func_a` function
    is written on this page (not in the docstring)?
    It is written as follows:

    ```markdown
    In the `See Also:` section of the [`func_a`][example.mod_a.func_a]
    function, `ClassA.method_a` is ...
    ```

Now, you might be wondering if you have to write all of the
module members by yourself.
The [Page mode](page.md) of MkAPI will assist you.
